# 👋 Bitcoin Dev Kit (BDK)

Similar to [`rust-bitcoin`](./9.4-hello-rust-bitcoin.md) repo, the BDK repo is a monorepo with a number of crates and lots of activity. I was going to explore the codebase in a similar way to the `rust-bitcoin` repo, but I found [The Book of BDK](https://bookofbdk.com) so I opted to start with that instead.

## Prep
- Read the main `README.md`
- Read the main `CONTRIBUTING.md`
- Read the Architecture Decision Record docs (`docs/adr`)
- Work through https://bookofbdk.com (GitHub repo: https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bookofbdk), compile and run all the examples
- Peruse https://bitcoindevkit.org

Some other potentially useful resources:
- [Start using and contributing to Bitcoin Dev Kit](https://waterst0ne.github.io/bdk-how-to-get-started)
- https://hackmd.io/@bdk
- [2024 Wizardsardine BDK code audit](https://gist.github.com/darosior/4aeb9512d7f1ac7666abc317d6f9453b)

## Some terms and concepts
In reading and doing the above, I came across a few terms and concepts that I wanted to dig into a bit more.

### Changeset
A changeset in BDK is a data structure that represents all the changes made to the wallet's state that need to be persisted to storage. It essentially captures the diff between the current in-memory state of the wallet and what has been previously saved to the database.

### Canonical & Non-canonical transactions
Basically "canonical" mean valid/accepted and "non-canonical" means invalid/rejected. BDK has a canonicalization algorithm to determine whether an unconfirmed and possibly conflicting transaction is canonical. This algorithm was a possible DOS vector in the past.

## BDK PR review
The PR has been merged already so no need to checkout the branch, build, test etc.

### \#1395 - feat(wallet): Allow user provided RNG, make rand an optional dependency
https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bdk/pull/1395

The PR was motivated by https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bdk/issues/871:
> Because we invoke `thread_rng` directly we have to also depend on `getrandom` in order to set certain feature flags to get things to compile on wasm.
>
> Can we just depend on `rand_core` and let users pass in anything implement `RngCore`? This would simplify dependencies a bit. The place where this will be most tricky is in tx building but I hope it can be done.
>
> We should try and attempt this before `v1`.

The essence of the PR is to remove `rand` as a required dependency, instead allowing users to pass in anything that implements `RngCore`. `RngCore` is a Trait from the `rand_core` crate that is an "implementation-level interface" for RNGs. Because `rand` implements `RngCore`, this change allows users to use `rand` to generate random numbers if they wish to, it's still used as a dev dependency, or they can use any other RNG that implements the `RngCore` Trait.

First up, until this point in my Rust learning journey of 2 months or so, I had not yet come across the `std`/`no_std` concept. It seems that the optionality of `no_std` allows crates to be used in environments where a full operating system might not be available or where there are constraints on memory and resource usage. Embedded devices and WASM environments are examples of such environments relevant to Bitcoin.

`#[cfg(feature = "std")]` is an example from the code. It's a compiler directive that the following code should only be compiled when the `std` feature is enabled.

As noted in the PR description:
> "`rand` was used primarily in two parts of bdk. Particularly in signing and in building a transaction."
>
> Signing:
> - Used implicitly in `sign_schnorr`, but nowhere else within `signer`.
>
> Transaction ordering:
> - Used to shuffle the inputs and outputs of a transaction, the default
> - Used in the single random draw as a fallback to branch and bound during coin selection. Branch and bound is the default coin selection option.

Randomness & shuffling of inputs and outputs in a transaction is important for privacy - a common heuristic in analysing transactions is that the last output is change and all earlier outputs are payments.

`single_random_draw` uses randomness, as the name suggests, but doesn't yield a single UTXO, contrary to the name! I guess it's called this because it keeps selecting single UTXOs from the randomly shuffled list until the accumulated UTXO amount reaches or exceeds the target amount?
